<<note>>
This is just a rough draft of a possible backstory, its not final and can be changed and adopted if necessary.
<</note>>

Some general things about the overall setting: 

* the overall tone of the game shall be close to 1980's Sci-Fi movies (Alien, Bladerunner, etc.)
* the game shall stick to realism whenever possible
* no crazy post-singularity techology, things shall stay simple and understandable

== 2025 - Landing on the Moon, again

In preparation for the mission to Mars mankind planed a research mission to moon with the goal to setup a small colony 

== 2032 - Landing on Mars

Fifthy years late, but mankind had finally made it to Mars. The two year trip brought many new insights into long time travel and also ignited the interest in space colonisation again.

== 2040 - Moon Colony

The Moon colony, once started as a testbed for the Mars mission, was now nearing its 15 anniversary. It no longer was limited to the two base modules with which it ones started, it now had grown into a small village and got frequent visits not only from the national space agencies but also from private enterprises. Space tourism has moved to whole new levels with the Moon Colony

== 2050 - Space Telescope

With the help of the Moon Colony a new space telescope was assembled, one good enough to discover planets and collect information about them.

== 2060 - Project Longshot

Project Longshot once started as an idea in the late 1970's now became reality. The telescopes had discovered a planet system around Alpha Centauri B and it was now Longshot job to profide some close up views, but as always with space travel, this wasn't going to be a short journey.

== 2110 - Arrival

Longshot entered the planet system of Alpha Centauri B, it was the first time a man-made object had done so.  As programmed Longshot launched a couple of small daughter satellites to do the closer inspection, while Longshot itself, to heavy to slow down, would continue through the system and into the void of space.

On their journey through the system the satelites produced some very detailed images of the planets and also discovered dozens of moons formerly unknown moons and smaller planets.

One planet, called Central, seemed perfect for collonisation, it had already a very earthlike athmosphere and plenty of water, in fact it consists to nine tenth out of water, which meant it had only little land to offer, but that should be more then enough to get a colonie started. Later collonisation could then happen via city-ships and similar land-creating endevours. The land that was there should be enough for a few decades to come.

The other was Hoti, it had an athmosphere, not breathable, but not toxic either, a simple oxygen masks should be enough to protect the population outside and inside the city there could be a decent athmosphere. 

The last canditat was named Nugani, it was a moon close to the gas giant Ensani. 

== 2220 - Collonisation

The Longshot drones had collected information about the new system for many decades and it became clear that the system provided habitatable planets. Plans for collonisation where put into place. 

Along with those ships carriing the people, automatic ships where send that should handle the terraforming.

== 2263 - Collonisation - Phase 1

The trip to Alpha Centauri took fourthy years. A handful of landing capsules where lost on entry, but that is probably to be expected on such a riski trip. 

As planed the terraforming started. While the atmosphere wasn't toxic by itself, it lacked enough oxigen to sustain human settlements, so the first few decades where spend in environment suits or with oxigen masks. 

== 2312 - Terraforming

The robotic probes arrive and terraforming begins.

== 2380 - Collonisation - Phase 2

With the terraforming making progress it become clear that it wouldn't take much longer till the atmosphere of Nugani become breathable. So the humans got ready to move to Alpha Centauri B.

A dozens ships where build, each with the ability to carry 16 entry capsules, each carring around 40 people. 640 people per ship 25 ships in total.

== 2382 - Collonisation - Corruption

Unknown by the earth government, the company Red Star, had build a handful of collonisation ships themselves. While NStars ships flow in a large group, so that they could give each other support on the long journey, the ships of Red Star where build for speed. They where build to overtake the NStar fleed and arrive at Alpha Centauri B first. The idea was simple, new land was freely available and whoever got there first was the one who could land claim to it. And Red Star was prepared to do exactly that. Not only where their ships faster, they also carried plenty of guns to protect their land. NStars fleed wasn't equiped or prepared for a war, they where launched with the expection to be the first.

== 2423 - Athmosphere on Nugani becomes breathable

150 years after the terraforming had begone, Nugani become ready for human habitants. The oxigen levels still were not up to earth standards, so cities had some additional oxigen supply going, but one no longer suffocated in the plain athmosphere. 

The human settle ships arrive.

== 2424 - Arrivial, Evil Supprise

One collonisation ship gets shoot out of the sky by RedStar.

== 2425 - Touchdown - Colonization on Nugani begins

In preparation to touchdown all humans in hibernation have been woken up, after all things could go wrong when entering the athmosphere and it might be important that they can evocuate the capsules fast enough. 

== 2434 - multiple cities have been build on Nugani 



== 2497 - Jane enters the world



== 2517 - The main game begins


