This is a list of basic features we should either get from additional libraries or write small classes ourself.

= Basics =
* Setting up Fullscreen/Windowed OpenGL Context, the mode should be switchable at runtime
* Gathering Input from Keyboard/Joystick/Mouse
* Allow input to be configurable
* Demo recording/playback of input
* Some structured file format parser/writer for config, map, tile- and sprite-definition files
* Optionally support for a binary format, since loading large tilemaps from a structured text file is slow
* Some way to store/retrieve translated strings (tinygettext)

= Graphics =
* Loading images (png, jpeg would be a nice addition but is not mandatory) and creating opengl textures from them
* A system that gathers all drawing commands, sorts them and maybe optimizes them for opengl
* The drawing system should be statefull to allow translation and maybe scaling and rotating of following drawing commands. It should be possible to maintain a stack of such transformations.

== Fonts ==
* We need Fonts to display Text on screen
* Fonts might be based on TTF for easier scaling/unicode support etc.
* it should be possible to apply some effects to fonts, black-border, color gradients, glow, etc.
* Fonts sholud be antialised

== Sprites ==
* Several Animations that can be switched. Animations are defined from a series of images. Speed of the animation or even single frames should be freely adjustable.
* It should be possible to freely define the origin point of a sprite
* Animation images can be extracted from bigger images (texture coordinate animation)
* Support for reversing animations and mirroring/flipping the images will reduce the number of images needed.
* We might have to extend sprites to support the 3 layer displaying of windstille
* Sprites should be defined in datafiles, so that properties like framerate and such are easily changable
* Sprites can come in the form of 2D (generated from pngs) and 3D sprites (generated from blender models)

= Sound =
* A way to send sound to the soundcard.
* Load wav and ogg files
* Stream ogg files for background music
* Mix several sound sources together
* Positional audio (we could also build a fake solution with adjuts panning/volume)
* Effects applied to sound streams (echo, reverb, etc)