<<note>>
Shall we use Vector2f or Vector3f? Later one would allow to make better and cleaner use of 3D objects, but would it would also require more work from the level designer. -- Grumbel
<</note>>

Windstille uses a ortogonal projection, meaning everything in the game will have a flat 2D look. Multiple layers scrolling at different speeds will be allowed to give a scene a sense of depth. Most non-animated objects in Windstille will be represented by simple 2D sprites,  while animated objects, like humans, robots or vehicles will be represented by 3D objects.

== Sprite

Simple rectangular sprite that is rotabable and scaleable.

{{{
Sprite {
  Vector2f position;
  float    rotation;
  float    scale;
}
}}}

== Simple Quad

Same as sprite, except that its four vertices can be moved
independently around.

{{{
Quad {
  Vector2f position[4];
}
}}}

== Textured Quad

A quad that is filled with a repeating textured.

{{{
TexturedQuad {
  Vector2f position[4];

  float    texture_rotation;
  float    texture_scale;
  Vector2f texture_offset;
}
}}}

== Rope

A series of points that is connected by a thick textured line to
represent ropes or pipes. Begin/end could use seperate textures.

{{{
Rope {
  Vector2f position[N];
  float    thickness;
}
}}}

== Group

Groups allow docking multiple primitives together.

{{{
Group {
  DrawingPrimitives primitives[N];
  float rotation;
  float scale;
}
}}}

== Sprite3D

Draws a 3d model exported from Blender on screen. 

{{{
Sprite3D {
  Vector3f   position;
  Quaternion rotation;
}
}}}
