Windstille takes place in a planetary system some lightyears away from earth. The system contains three habitable planets along with numerous moons and other planets.

== Ensani

<<thumbnail src="planet_ensani.jpg">>

A huge gas giant around which circle numerous smaller moons, one of which Nugani, which is habitable. It also has Saturn like rings around it.

Balloon stations exist in the upper athmosphere of Ensani and provide room for a few thousands collonist.

== Nugani

A moon around the large gas Ensani, a relativly cold place, kept warm mostly through tidal heating, which in turn is the cause of plenty of earth quakes and other geological activity. It is inhabited by the second wave of collonist that didn't make it to Central.

This is the moon where the game starts and most of the game will take place.

Nugani isn't an ideal place for colonialization, but terraforming technology has allowed humans to settle on the moon. Breathable athmosphere isn't present on the whole planet as the terraforming is far from done, but around cities it is present, as air recycling and ventilation systems keep it fresh. These recycling systems causes a distinct constant flow of air inside the cities. 

Near the cities there is a special kind of genetically engineered forest that is supposed to generate the oxygen, but so far it hasn't worked as hoped and thus supplies only a small part of the breathable air. Humans can survive there, but it isn't a pleasant place to be. In the city things are more critical, as without the air ventilation systems not enough breathable atmosphere makes it into the city. Still air situations are therefore feared in the city. 

Low Altitude Geostationary Satellites (LAGS), balloon ships that hover stationary over the city and are controlled by electric motors powered by solor cells, provide communication and monitoring inside the city and its surrounding area. The LAGS are movable and can be deployed to other areas, but they are slow and thus can't be used in emergency situations.

Cargo gets moved around by a underground tunnel system. From city to city normal sized trains are used, while for inner city small 1m^2 cargo trains are used.

Small drones are used for close up surveillance.

== Central

<<thumbnail src="planet_central.jpg">>

A central very earth like planet, lots of water, very little land. Rich on natural resources. 

The first wave of collonist landet here and has since then kept a tight grip on the planet, not allowing anybody of the second wave to settle here.

As the amount of habitatable land is rather small, cities are huge and crowded.

== Hoti

<<thumbnail src="planet_hoti.jpg">>

A desert planet close to the sun. It features a very hot climate along with very long days (taking earth years, maybe decades or centuries) due to the planets slow rotation, which makes the pols the most attractive place to for habitates. A few collonist from the second wave settled down here. Solar power is available in abundance.

Due to the long day/night cycle the nightside gets extremely cold.

Some habitates might be constructed in such a way that they can be moved and thus stay in a permanent climate zone. Such relocations would need to happen every Hoti day, which might mean every few decodes of earth time. Other habitates might simple be abondoned when they move from day to night side or visa verse.

