Isn't this a little... sexist?
* the player referred to as "he" even though the character's a woman
* a woman being beaten "or bitten, or whatever" -- please don't trivialize violence against women
* gratuitous shower scene [[User:Sunnan|Sunnan]] 02:31, 20 Nov 2005 (CET)

: I totally disagree with the "sexist" point. The fact that most games don't feature any women at all, or if they do then they are just a person to be rescued/read out announcements/whatever, is considerably more sexist, or at least stupid. I can't see how you can complain about a game that features a female character in the lead role, and a lead role which involves fighting/being hurt/acting like a normal person. How on earth is allowing a female character to be hurt on a dangerous mission trivialising violence against women? Should Jane be at home looking after children instead? -- [[User:James Gregory|James Gregory]] 12:35, 25 Nov 2005 (CET)
:: I had three specific points, mentioned above. I could clarify them if you want. I wanted to raise a discussion around this topic while it's still early enough in the process to do so. Of course I don't mind having female characters in the game. I don't think the original ''Metroid'' games are sexist, while maybe ''Super Mario 64'' is. "Dear Mario, I have baked a cake for you..." I don't want to fight or argue, but this is an important topic for many people. I perceived the phrasing '''as written''' -- ''"Cutscene of Jane getting hit/bitten whatever and getting wounding and then dragging herself to the next opening in the forest to be found by the shuttle."'' -- to trivialize violence against women. YMMV but it concerned me enough so that I'd want to bring it up for discussion. [[User:Sunnan|Sunnan]] 05:44, 26 Nov 2005 (CET)
::: * it is standard practice in English to refer to a person of unknown gender as "he". Furthermore, 99.99% of the people who play open source computer games are male, so referring to the player as "he" doesn't seem particularly strange. I am aware some authors purposefully use "she" to refer to someone of unknown gender just to challenge convention or whatever, that's fine by me but it's hardly a requirement.
:::: In this particular case it looks more weird than usual since the character's female.
::: * if the sentence said "Cutscene of Bob getting hit/bitten whatever and getting wounded and then dragging himself to the next opening in the forest to be found by the shuttle" would that be trivialising violence against men? Computer games trivialise violence in general - most games use subject matter of wars, fighting, shooting, etc to provide entertainment - but there is nothing sexist about this.
:::: Yes, it would be trivializing violence against men, and perhaps it would be as much of a problem. I happened to read the writing as nonchalant and uncaring. Perhaps that was not the intention. I see one difference, though. The majority of the violence performed in contemporary civilization seems to be performed by men. (The majority of the victims are male, too.) That's why violence is sometimes seen as a feminist issue. YMMV, of course. I get a knee-jerk reaction when I see violence against women brushed of as "whatever" -- you may have other reactions, or similar reactions to other issues.
::: * the shower scene doesn't feature any nakedness. People coming out of showers is a standard situation in TV and films, and not just those aimed at men. Earlier discussion ended with a general conclusion that a marginally soap-opera-esque feel to the plot might work well, and soap operas feature plenty of people coming out of showers. Are soap operas sexist? -- [[User:James Gregory|James Gregory]] 16:54, 26 Nov 2005 (CET)
:::: Nakedness in itself doesn't have to a problem. It's the (seemingly) gratuitous sexualization that has to be handled with care so it doesn't become de-humanizing. Lara Croft could've been such a cool heroine. Instead, she was reduced to a male masturbation fantasy. "Are soap operas sexist?" Yes. I perceive most of them as very sexist. [[User:Sunnan|Sunnan]] 01:12, 29 Nov 2005 (CET)

(Oh, and one more thing -- I know this isn't supposed to be a clone, but one thing I did enjoy with ''Metroid'', ''Another World'' and ''Prince of Persia'' was that the game play was revealed gradually, not through a tutorial mode. Yes, ''Another World'' is tough, but it's not tough because you don't know how the controls work -- it's tough because you don't know what to do, in what order to shoot things, and because you have to have lightning timing. --Sunnan, again.)