<<ind:0>>
I like the story part from quickflash that Jane is getting bored about mining with 21 and starts modifying her suit in free time. Also the competitor being her sister might be interesting.

I also like the part from pifactorial about boss having a mining company at first that gets "overtaken" once the non loyal worker gave the codes away. Though I'd simply change the ending so that boss starts a new business new with his money left. No need to have a too strong relation between Jane and Boss (which would be the case with boss being bankcrupt and Jane being the only one staying with him).
 
-- [[MatzeB]]
<</ind>>

<<ind:1>>
I fully agrree with MatzeB's arguments, that sounds like it would make the story more 'real' (or better 'believable').<BR/>The idea with making the boss Janes sister ist a bit too much IMHO, though.

 -- [[User:Hoehrer|Hoehrer]] 18:31, 4 Jul 2005 (BST)
<</ind>>

<<ind:1>>
They said Boss owned a junkyard, so I tried to find a way to work that into the story.

--[[User:Pifactorial|Pifactorial]] 19:02, 4 Jul 2005 (BST)
<</ind>>

----

<<ind:0>>
Regarding the story, one idea I haven't seen mentioned yet at all anywhere on this wiki or in the IRC meeting logs (I may have missed it) is having a native race on the mining planet.

So far, we have a mining planet/moon that has basically been taken over by a bunch of corporations for mining purposes. Wouldn't it be more interesting if there was already a peaceful (or even not so peaceful) human race on the planet? It is kind of clich&eacute;d, but it would make for a good source of conflict and could create some very interesting characters. 

&ndash; sik0fewl@[[User:207.195.108.158|207.195.108.158]] 19:06, 5 Jul 2005 (BST)
<</ind>>

<<ind:1>>
I don't like the idea of a native race because it would completely change the background dynamic - it's not like you can say "This is a mining planet, oh and there just happen to be some aliens there too". If we discover aliens in a few hundred years time (when this story is set), I don't think they will be so common that having a few aliens who just happen to live on one of our (Earth's) mining planets is going to be a minor oh-by-the-way thing, it would end up dominating the storyline.

-- [[User:James Gregory|James Gregory]] 22:51, 5 Jul 2005 (BST)
<</ind>>

<<ind:2>>
I never meant it to be a "plop-in" thing on the side. You're right that it would be a very big (or at least important) part of the storyline. I think this would really help drive the story, especially as far as character development goes. 
The first thing that comes to mind for story is this: There are two main "groups". The natives of the planet who are basically being taken over and the corporations who are "taking over" the natives so that they can exploit their resources. The natives would have an underground resistance that's trying to take back their planet. Jane is working for the corporations and ends up having moral issues and ends up [eventually] helping the resistance. The Boss might even agree with Jane and help her out, but his/her involvement in the resistance would be very secretive and only through Jane.
Anyway, that last paragraph was just a suggestion. I'm sure others (like the ones that already posted their ideas on the [[Ideas]] page can come up with something a little better; possibly sticking a little closer to the current suggestions, too.

- sik0fewl@[[User:207.195.108.158|207.195.108.158]] 00:20, 6 Jul 2005 (BST)
<</ind>>