While Windstille tries to be somewhat original, however there is are obviously some games that have been a huge inspiration.

== Another World ==

One of the most athmosperic games ever created, it has tons of little details, birds in the background, a lion like creature that will watch you in the background for a few screens and will attack you only moments later. Its basically 100% scriptbased, meaning no screen will play the same as the one before, something that makes this game rather uniq and sets it apart from basically all other platformers. Fighting against enemies works either by using the environment, ie. drop huge objects on them (cage, crystal ball) or by using a laser weapon which has three modes, normal shoot, shield and a wall-blasting supershoot. The mode is selected by charging the weapon for a given amount of time.

== Flashback ==

Still probally one of the best animated games ever, especially the later levels where you travel around in a city had quite a bit of influence on the 'human-part' of Windstille.

* [[http://pingus.seul.org/~grumbel/tmp/flashback-gameplay.avi|Flashback Gameplay Video 1]]
* [[http://pingus.seul.org/~grumbel/tmp/flashback-gameplay3.avi|Flashback Gameplay Video 2]]

== Persian Gulf Inferno ==

Can't really remember much about this game, but the general look was somewhat similar to Flashback.

== Metroid ==

Obviously a heavy inspiration for the powersuit part, however Windstille should try to be quite a bit slower, making the action more real and less jumpy. Metroid Zero Mission actually also contains a short 'human-part', where you have to survive without your powersuit, however that is not all that well executed, looks for most part like a sneaking-game (MetalGear), but actually is just run and hide with the enemies since one simply can't actually 'sneak'. Still is worth a look, video is available [[http://ia200100.eu.archive.org/hdc1/items/MetroidZM_2850/MetroidZM_2850_part4.avi|here (forward a minute or two to get to the human-part, its from a speedrun, so it doesn't exactly represent normal gameplay, but it gets close)]].

== Turrican ==

Turrican is obviously inspired by Metroid and so Windstille is also inspired by Turrican. Originally, meaning the first few days/weeks of development, Windstille reused some Turrican gfx as fillers.

== Cybernator ==

A 2D Sidescrolling mech game, looks somewhat similar to Metroid, but plays *much* slower, since you really are controlling a huge mech and not just a person in powersuit, quite unlike basically every other 2d side scroller.

== Mission Elevator/Elevator Action ==

Rather obscure reference, however was probally the first 2D game that had a somewhat 'realistic' environment, or at least the first one I touched.

== Other similar scrollers ==
* [[http://www.blizzard.com/blizzclassic/#blackthorne|Blackthorne]]
* [[http://www.oddworld.com/games/ow_abeodd.shtml|Abe's Oddysee]]